 Recorded Books is pleased to present the Modern Scholars series, where great professors teach you. My name is Richard Davidson, and I'll be your host. Today, we begin a course entitled, Masters of Enterprise, a history of American business and those who made it. Your professor is H.W. Brands, a prolific and award-winning writer who's currently Distinguished Professor of History and holder of the Melbourne G. Glasscock Chair in American History at Texas A&M in College Station, Texas. Professor Brands earned a B.A. in History from Stanford University in 1975. After spending a year working as a traveling salesman, Brands took a job teaching history in Portland, Oregon's Jesuit High School, while earning both an M.A. in Liberal Studies from Reed College and an M.S. in Mathematics from Portland State University. He went on to receive his Ph.D. in History from the University of Texas. Brands is the author of 17 books, has edited four others, and has published dozens of articles and reviews in publications ranging from the New York Times to the American Historical Review. Since the formation of the American Republic, the principles of free enterprise and equal opportunity have been at the very core of economic philosophy. During the Revolution, colonists fought not only for intangibles like liberty and justice, but also for the promises of a free market that provided everyone with the opportunity to pursue economic advancement regardless of social position and without interference from the crown. America quickly became a society in which an individual's success would be measured not by birthright, but rather by determination. In this atmosphere, men and women have sought fortune limited only by their own abilities, their willingness to work hard, and their courage in the face of unknown dangers. In this course, we'll explore the lives and careers of successful men and women who seize the opportunities offered by the vibrant and open economy that ensued. We'll examine how each of these individuals found the necessary resources, both economic and personal, to achieve greatness in the business arena. In doing so, we hope not only to arrive at a better understanding of American business history in general, but also to commune with its greatest visionaries, its masters of enterprise. For more information on this lecture, please visit the course's webpage at www.modernscholar.com, where you'll have access to links to related sites, a seminar room to share your thoughts with other students, and yes, of course, a final exam. And now we begin Masters of Enterprise, A History of American Business and Those Who Made It. Lecture 1, The Business of America. And now, Professor Brands. The business of America is business, said Calvin Coolidge, and the history of business is the stories of the people who made it. This course is about American business history. Its format is a series of lectures of sketches of important figures in the history of American business. There are going to be several themes that will emerge from this course. One is that the history of American business can be seen as a window on American history generally. There are various ways of examining American history. One can look at the politics, one can look at the ideals, one can look at American military history, one can look at American social or cultural history. Another way of looking at it is through the history of American business. One thing that Americans have done consistently from the 18th century until the present is deal with the problem of how to make a living. And by examining the evolution of American business, of how people have made a living, I think we're going to get a chance to get right at the heart of what American life was like for all sorts of people from then until now. The second theme that's going to emerge from the course is the distinction between business history and economic history. Business history is the history of businesses, of enterprises, of firms. Economic history is the history of the American economy, the larger terms of employment, of production, of the relationships of one industry to another. This is going to play an important role in what we're going to be doing. And in fact, at times I'll be looking at American business history through the lens of American economic history. But it's important to distinguish the two. I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time dealing with matters of employment, with production levels and the like. Those will come in to the degree that they affect the businesses and the business people we're dealing with. For the most part, we're going to be focusing on the history of American business. A third theme that will emerge in the course is the role of entrepreneurs, of individual enterprises. Now, one shouldn't believe that enterprise, that entrepreneurs are the only important figures in American business. In fact, in the 20th century, the role of corporations, of large organizations that are run by groups of people that don't necessarily own the corporations, will become important. And we'll follow some of those individuals. But peculiarly in American history, in the history of American business, individual entrepreneurs, the individuals who have the ideas, who start the businesses, who identify with the businesses, these are the driving force in American business history. These are the people we are going to focus on. Karl Marx once said that people make their history, but not in circumstances of their own choosing. Now, I think some people might find it humorous, ironic, that Karl Marx is being quoted here in a course on American business history. But in fact, I think that anybody who looks at Marx's writings will discover that Marx was a rather acute student, a rather acute observer of business history, especially of the history of what he would call capitalism. Well, we're going to take a leaf from Marx and examine the roles of the entrepreneurs, the individuals who make American business history, but not in circumstances of their choosing. In fact, one of the important themes of the course and one of the ideas we're going to pursue is the degree to which individual enterprise has to adjust to the terms of American economy, to the terms of American politics over the course of the two centuries we're going to be dealing with. The successful entrepreneurs of the 18th and early 19th century are not the same types of persons. They're not the same individuals. They don't have the same sets of skills as successful entrepreneurs in the 20th and early 21st centuries. And that's going to be something we're going to deal with again and again. I'll be coming back to this in the course of the lectures. Another theme is the role of technology, technology in American economic history, and technology in particular as it affects the work of American business people. The technological changes are some of the obvious things, the role of science, the emergence of different means of production, distribution, consumption, but it's going to play an important role at every stage in American business history. In fact, it isn't too much to say that American businesses are actually the agency by which American technology comes into American daily life. The scientists are out there working on their inventions, but the inventions don't become an important part of American life generally until they find their way into business. It's business that introduces technology. It's business that sells the technology to the American people. A fifth theme that I'm going to be developing over the course of the lectures is the role of government in American business history and in American economic history generally. In the year 1776, which for convenience sake we'll take as the beginning of the course, it was after all the date on which America claimed independence, in 1776 there were two landmark documents, one could almost call them two manifestos, that were published that year. The first one, the one with which Americans are most familiar, was Thomas Jefferson's Declaration of Independence, which established the political framework through which American politics is going to be viewed. By declaring that all men were created equal, Jefferson established the framework for American democracy. It would take a while for democracy to fully evolve, but that is the groundwork, this is the basis for American political history. In that same year, in 1776, a Scottish philosopher, economist we would call him now, Adam Smith, published a book called The Wealth of Nations. This work is generally considered to be the founding document, the manifesto of modern capitalism. And one way, one important way of viewing the evolution of American economic and business history is to consider the interplay between Thomas Jefferson and Adam Smith, between the Declaration of Independence and the Wealth of Nations. The Declaration of Independence posits that all men are created equal. Now, one of the things we'll discover is that Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations premises the development of American capitalism, American business, and capitalism generally, on the notion of inequality. It's inequality that drives businesses to do what they do, it's inequality that drives the economy. So we've got these two values that Americans embrace, the value of political democracy with its premise of equality, and the value of capitalism, private enterprise, with its premise of inequality. One of the things that Americans have to do, American business people, and Americans generally have to do over the course of the two centuries that we're going to be dealing with, is to figure out how to reconcile these two values. What do we do when they come into conflict? It's easy to think that in fact, democracy and capitalism fit neatly together. Well, at times they do, at times they don't. And one of the things that we're going to be examining over the course of these lectures is how the fit has been made, how the adjustments between democracy and capitalism have been made over the course of American history. Those are the themes that we're going to be dealing with in the course. And now I'd like to give a brief overview of the developments of American business history. I'm going to basically run through 200 years of American business history in the next 20 minutes. So hold your breath and here we go. The first chapter, you might say, we're going to be looking at the colonial beginnings of American business. It's important to remember that several of the American colonies were first established as business ventures. The Virginia colony, for example, was established, the Jamestown colony, was established by the Virginia Company. And it was promoted, it was intended to be a money-making venture. This establishes the theme of business, of private enterprise, from the very beginning, from the early 17th century. Now it's worth bearing in mind that this wasn't the only model for American colonialism. The other model was the religious model. The Massachusetts colony, for example, was established as a religious refuge for dissenters from the established religion in England. So we're going to see a tension here in American colonial history, but this is a tension that persists right on through American history. On the one hand, the colonies were established to make money. They were a business venture. On the other hand, they were established as a religious refuge. Now at times, in very many cases, Americans are going to try to reconcile these two notions, money-making with the role of religion. And we'll see that that does form an important theme in American history. After we get through the American colonial beginnings, the really important event, the one that's going to let us jump off into the full-blown discussion of American business history, is the American Revolution. Now, every student of American history knows that the theme of the American Revolutionaries was no taxation without representation. And that was perfectly true. It's worth bearing in mind, however, that many of those people who were objecting most to taxes were the business folks who were having to pay the taxes. The taxes on tea, for example, and the monopoly on tea that was given to the British East India Company, was what prompted the Boston Tea Party. There were various other regulations that constrained American businesses that were a principal cause of the American Revolution. There were the Navigation Acts, for example. These prevented American manufacturers from engaging in the production of iron and steel products, for example. There was an important restriction that was placed on American businesses in 1763 when the British government forbade the settlement of new developments in the territory across the Appalachians. One of the things that is important to remember in American business history is the role of speculation, the idea of making investment with the hope that this investment will pay off in great form in the future. The speculators who were speculating in those days in American land, in Western lands, were exceedingly upset when the British said that they could no longer speculate in the Western lands. And the annoyance, the outrage of the speculators was a principal role, was a principal motive, and a principal driver of the American Revolution. In fact, in the first lecture, the first substantive lecture, the one after this, when I talk about John Jacob Astor, we'll see that John Jacob Astor honed speculation into a fine art that made him the wealthiest man in America. This was exactly what the American colonists were upset about, the notion that the British were going to prevent them from doing this. The American Revolution was a success. The Americans gained their independence after a war that lasted from 1775 until 1783. With independence, Americans congratulated themselves on this great work well done. They discovered that they were now free from British restraints. They no longer had to pay taxes to the British government. They no longer had to abide by the British navigation laws. They could trade wherever they wanted. But they also discovered that they were free now from British protection. The downside of being part of the British Empire was that American businesses couldn't do quite what they wanted. The upside of the British Empire was that American businesses were protected by the largest and most powerful fleet in the world. So Americans enter independence, national independence, in the 1780s, freed from the restraints but also freed from protection. They have to figure out how they're going to get along in a world where their former protector is now their principal competitor. As we will see for the first 40 years of American independence, this was a major problem, not only for American politics, that most obviously, but also for American commerce. Another problem that arose with independence was the determination of how strong the central government could be. I mentioned earlier in the themes that I'm going to develop in the course, the role of government. Well, in fact, the role of government plays a principal part of American thinking regarding business from the very beginning. In the 1780s, the states were supreme in American politics. And with the supremacy of the states was a certain chaos that developed in the American economy as businesses in one state lobbied for protection against businesses from another state. As one state, for example, would slap import duties on products from another state. During the course of the 1780s, American businesses became one of the principal forces arguing for a stronger central government. They believed that the very weak government that was established during the American Revolutionary War under the Articles Confederation simply wasn't strong enough to provide the framework for the emergence of a strong American business class. One of the things that we'll see and we'll develop over the course is the notion that government has to set the rules, has to establish the framework in which business operates. Business, by and large, wants to be free of government restraints. But there's a minimal amount of rule setting, of law enforcing that business requires in order for it to proceed fruitfully and profitably. Since we do not have enough time, this ends lecture one.