 Mr. President, last year I spoke at one of the marches in Chicago for comprehensive immigration reform. I looked out across the faces in the crowd. I saw mothers and fathers, citizens and non-citizens, people of Polish and Mexican descent, working Americans, and children. And what I know is that these are people we should embrace, not fear. We can and should be able to see ourselves in them. I do not say that to diminish the complexity of the task. I say it because I believe that attitude must guide our discourse. We can and should be able to fix our broken immigration system, and do so in a way that's reflective of American values and ideals and the tradition that we have of accepting immigrants to our shores. I think that the bill that has come to the floor is a fine first step, but I strongly believe it requires some changes, and I'm working with others to improve it. In approaching immigration reform, I believe we must enact tough, practical reforms that ensure and promote the legal and orderly entry of immigrants into our country. Just as important, we must respect the humanity of the carpenters and bricklayers who helped build America, the humanity of garment workers and farm workers who come to America to join their families, the humanity of students like my father, who came to America in search of a dream. We are a nation of immigrants, and we must respect that shared history as this debate moves forward. To fix the system in a way that does not require us to revisit the same problem in 20 years, I continue to believe that we need stronger enforcement on the border and at the workplace. That means a workable, mandatory system that employers must use to verify the legality of their workers. But for reform to work, we also must respond to what pulls people to America and what pushes them out of their home countries. Where we can reunite families, we should. Where we can bring in more foreign-born workers with the skills our economy needs, we should. And these goals are not mutually exclusive. We should not say that Spanish-speaking or working-class immigrants are only good enough to be temporary workers and cannot earn the right to be a part of the American family. With regard to the most pressing part of the immigration challenge, the 12 million undocumented immigrants living in the U.S., we must create an earned path to citizenship. Now, no one condones unauthorized entry into the United States. And by supporting an earned path to citizenship, I am not saying that illegal entry should go unpunished.